She isn't coming yet, Toto. Did she hurt you? She tried to, didn't she? Come on – we'll go tell Uncle Henry and Auntie Em. Come on, Toto.
Aunt Em!
She isn't coming yet, Toto.
Did she hurt you?
She tried to, didn't she?
Come on – we'll go tell Uncle Henry and Auntie Em.
Come on, Toto.
Aunt Em!
Fifty-seven, fifty-eight --
Just listen to what Miss Gulch did to Toto! She --
Dorothy, please! We're trying to count!
Oh, but Aunt Em, she hit him over the --
Don't bother us now, honey -- this old incubator's gone bad, and we're likely to
Don't bother us now, honey -- this old incubator's gone bad, and we're likely to lose a lot of our chicks.
Oh -- oh, the poor little things. Oh, but Aunt Em, Miss Gulch hit Toto right over the back with a rake just because she says he gets in her garden and chases her nasty old cat every day.
Seventy --     Dorothy, please!
he gets in her garden and chases
her nasty old cat every day.
Seventy --
Dorothy, please!
but he doesn't do it every day --
just once or twice a week. And he can't
catch her old cat, anyway. And now she
says she's gonna get the sheriff, and --
Dorothy!
We're busy!
Oh -- all right.
Poor little orphan, and her Miss Gulch troubles. Gosh all hemlock - you know, she ought to have somebody to play with.
I know, but we all got to work out our own problems, Henry.
Yes.
Oh, I hope we got them in time.
How's she coming?
Ow! You got my finger!
Why don't you get your finger out of the way!
Well, why don't you get your finger out of the way!
Come on - come on - over this way.
Okay.
Right on my finger!
It's a lucky thing it wasn't your head.
Zeke, what am I going to do about Miss Gulch? Just because Toto chases her old cat --
Listen, honey, I got them hogs to get in.
Now lookit, Dorothy, you ain't using your head about Miss Gulch. Think you didn't have any brains at all.
I have so got brains.
Well, why don't you use them? When you come home, don't go by Miss Gulch's place. Then Toto won't get in her garden, and you won't get in no trouble. See?
Oh, Hunk, you just won't listen, that's all.
Well, your head ain't made of straw, you know.
Oh! Oh, it feels like my joints are
rusted.
Listen, Dorothy, don't let Hunk kid you
about Miss Gulch. She's just a poor sour-
faced old maid that -- she ain't got no
heart left. You know, you should have a
little more heart yourself, and have pity
on her.
Well, gee, I try and have a heart.
and have pity on her.
Now look, here's something that really
has a heart. This is the best invention I
ever invented.
This?
Sure. It's to break up winds, so we don't
have no more dust storms. Can you imagine
what it'll mean to this section of the
country?
Sure. It's to break up winds, so we don't have no more dust storms. Can you imagine what it'll mean to this section of the country? I'll show you. It works perfectly now. Here's the principle. You see that fan -- that sends up air currents into the sky. These air currents -- Oh, stop it!
DOROTHY
Oh!
Who did it? Now wait a minute.
Hickory!
Now what happened? I'll bet Hunk did that.
Say! Get in there before I make a dime.
Say! Get in there before I make a dime bank out of you! Listen, kid, are you going to let that old Gulch heifer try and buffalo you?
She ain't nothing to be afraid of. Have a little courage, that's all.
I'm not afraid of her.
Then the next time she squawks, walk
right up to her and spit in her eye.
That's what I'd do!
Oh!
Oh, Zeke! Help! Help me, Zeke!
Oh! Oh, Zeke! Help! Help me, Zeke!
Get me out of here! Help!
Are you all right, Dorothy?
Yes, I'm all right. Oh -- I fell in and - and Zeke --
Oh -- I fell in and - and Zeke --
and Zeke --
Why, Zeke, -- you're just as scared as I am!
What's the matter -- gonna let a little old pig make a coward out of you?
Look at you, Zeke -- you're just as white --
I know three shiftless farm hands that'll be out of a job before they know it!
Well, Dorothy was walking along the --
Now, you and Hunk get back to that wagon!
But some day they're going to erect a statue to me in this town, and --
Well, don't start posing for it now.
can't work on an empty stomach. Have some crullers.
Gosh, Mrs. Gale.
Just fried.
Swell.
You see, Dorothy toppled in with the big Duroc...
It's no place for Dorothy about a pig sty! Now you go feed those hogs before they worry themselves into anemia!
It's no place for Dorothy about a pig sty!
Now you go feed those hogs before they worry themselves into anemia!
Now, Dorothy, dear, stop imagining things. You always get yourself into a fret over nothing.
said she was gonna --
No --
Now, you just help us out today, and find yourself a place where you won't get into any trouble.
Some place where there isn't any trouble.
Do you suppose there is such a place,
Toto? There must be. It's not a place
you can get to by a boat or a train.
It's far, far away -- behind the moon --
beyond the rain --
Somewhere, over the rainbow, way up high,
There's a land that I heard of once in a
lullaby.
Somewhere, over the rainbow, skies are blue, And the dreams
that you dare to dream really do....
somewhere, over the rainbow, skies are blue, And the dreams
that you dare to dream really do.... come true....
someday I'll wish upon a star And wake up where the clouds are far behind me.
Where troubles melt like lemon drops, Away above the chimney tops,
That's where you'll find me.
Someday I'll wish upon a star And wake
up where the clouds are far behind me.
Where troubles melt like lemon drops, Away above the chimney
tops, That's where you'll find me. Somewhere, over the
rainbow, bluebirds fly. Birds fly over the rainbow, Why then -
oh, why can't I? If happy little bluebirds fly Beyond the
rainbow Why, oh, why can't I?
Mr. Gale!
Howdy, Miss Gulch.
I want to see you and your wife right away....
about Dorothy.
Well, what has Dorothy done?
I'm all but lame from the bite on my leg!
You mean she bit you?
What's she done? I'm all but lame from the bite on my leg!
No, her dog!
NO!
Dorothy enters — carrying Toto in her arms — CAMERA TRUCKS forward on them — PANS to right with Dorothy to Uncle Henry — then Pans her left to Aunt Em and Miss Gulch — Miss
That dog's a menace to the community.
I'm taking him to the sheriff and make
sure he's destroyed.
Dorothy screams at Miss Gulch.
Miss Gulch tries to take Toto away from Dorothy.
Uncle Henry takes Toto.
puts him into basket
Dorothy screams at Miss Gulch.
Miss Gulch tries to take Toto away from Dorothy.
Uncle Henry takes Toto -- puts him into basket
Destroyed? Toto? Oh, you can't! You mustn't!
Auntie Em! Uncle Henry! You won't let her, will you?
Of course we won't. Will we, Em?
Please, Aunt Em, Toto didn't mean to.
Please, Aunt Em, Toto didn't mean to. He
didn't know he was doing anything wrong.
I'm the one that ought to be punished. I
let him go in her garden. You can send
me to bed without supper --
If you don't hand over that dog, I'll
bring a damage suit that'll take your
whole farm! There's a law protecting
folks against dogs that bite!
How would it be if she keeps him tied up?
He's really gentle -- with gentle people, that is.
Well, that's for the Sheriff to decide.
Here's his order allowing me to take him.
Unless you want to go against the law.
Uhh -- yeah --
Now, we can't go against the law,
I'm afraid poor Toto will have to go.
Now you're seeing reason.
No --
Here's what I'm taking him in -- so he
can't attack me again.
Oh, no, no! I won't let you take him!
Oooh, I'll bite you myself!
Dorothy!
You wicked old witch! Uncle Henry,
Auntie Em, don't let 'em take Toto!
Don't let her take him -- please!
You wicked old witch!
Don't let 'em take Toto!
I've got an order!   Let me have...
Stop her!
Put him in the basket, Henry.
The idea!
Oh, don't, Uncle Henry.
Oh, Toto!
Don't...
Almira Gulch, just because you own half the county doesn't mean you have the power to run the rest of us! For twenty-three years, I've been dying to tell you what I thought of you! And now — well, being a Christian woman, I can't say it!
what I thought of you! And now -- well,
being a Christian woman, I can't say it!
what I thought of you!
And now -- well,
Toto jumps in thru window and onto bed
Dorothy hugs him
reacts
speaks to him
then takes suitcase from under bed
starts packing it
(Toto barks)
Toto, darling! Oh, I got you back! You came back! Oh, I'm so glad! Toto!
Oh, they'll be coming back for you in a minute. We've got to get away! We've got to get away!
Oh, they'll be coming back for you in a minute. We've got to get away! We've got to run away -- quick!
Dorothy looks down to f.g.
Toto runs forward down path
Dorothy enters in f.g. -- reads sign -- reacts to Professor humming o.s.
Professor steps down out of wagon -- sees Dorothy -- speaks to her as he crosses to fire at left
Well, well, well -- house guests, huh?
And who might you be? No, no -- now don't tell me.
Let's see -- you're -- you're travelling in disguise. No, that's not right. I -- you're -- you're going on a visit.
you're travelling in disguise.
you're going on a visit.
you're running away.
How did you guess?
Why are you running away?
Why --
No, no -- now don't tell me. They -- they don't understand you at home. They don't appreciate you. You want to see other lands -- big cities -- big mountains -- big oceans --
don't appreciate you. You want to see
other lands -- big cities -- big
mountains -- big oceans --
Why, it's just like you could read what
was inside of me.
Well, we -- uh --
Oh, Toto, that's not....
Please, Professor, why can't we go along with you?
He's perfectly welcome. As one dog to another, huh? Here now -- let's see where were we?
Oh, yes - you - you wanted to go home, huh?
Oh, no, I wanted to go along with you.
Oh --
Nobody cares about me at home. They
wouldn't even miss me.
Aw, come, come, come --
No, they won't - honestly.
Oh --
Auntie Em was even going to let them kill Toto yesterday for biting Miss Gulch. Oh, please, Professor, why can't we go with you and see all the Crowned Heads of Europe?
Do you know any? Oh, you mean the thing - Yes, well, I -- I never do anything
Do you know any?
Oh, you mean the thing -
Yes, well, I -- I never do anything
without consulting my crystal first.
Let's....
...go inside here -- we'll -- Just come along. I'll show you. There you are - right in there.
That's right. Here -- sit right down here.
That's it. Ha ha! This -- this is the same genuine, magic, authentic crystal used by the Priests of Isis and Osiris in the days of the Pharaohs of Egypt -- in which Cleopatra first saw the
That's it. Ha ha!
This -- this is the same genuine, magic, authentic crystal used by the Priests of Isis and Osiris in the days of the Pharaohs of Egypt -- in which Cleopatra first saw the approach of Julius Caesar and Marc Anthony, and -- and so on -- and so on.
Now, you -- you'd better close your eyes, my child, for a moment -- in order to be better in tune with the infinite.
reaching out into the....
...infinite. Yes.
That's -- that's all right. Now you can open them. We'll gaze into the crystal.
Ahh -- what's this I see? A house -- with a picket fence....
...and a barn -- with a weather vane and a -- of a -- of a running horse.
We'll gaze into the crystal.
No - it's - it's - a crowing rooster.
That's our farm!
Oh -- yes.
Yes, there's -- there's a woman --
she's.... INSERT -- CU of the photograph -
...she's wearing a polka-dot dress....
Yes...That's Aunt Em.
Her -- her name is Emily.
That's right. What's she doing?
Why, she's crying.
Oh --
Someone has hurt her -- someone has just about broken her heart.
Me?
Well, it's -- it's someone she loves very much. Someone she's been very kind to. Someone she's taken care of in sickness.
I had the measles once -- and she stayed right by me every minute.
I had the measles once — and she stayed right by me every minute.
What's she doing now?
Has it poppies on the wall....
paper?
I said it had poppies on the wall paper!
Eh -- she's -- What's this? Why, she's --
she's putting her hand on her heart --
she's -- she's dropping down on the....
...bed.
Oh, no -- no!
That's all -- the Crystal's gone dark.
Oh, you....
you don't suppose she could really be sick, do you? Oh -- Oh, I've got to go
you don't suppose she could really be
sick, do you? Oh -- Oh, I've got to go
home right away!
But -- what's this? I thought you were
going along with me.
Oh, no, no, I have to get to her
right....
away! Come on, Toto! Oh, what'll I do?
If we go home, they'll send you to the
Sheriff. And if we don't, Aunt Em may --
well, she may die! I know what I'll do -
Better get under cover, Sylvester — there's a storm blowing up — a whopper, to speak in the vernacular of the
Better get under cover, Sylvester
there's a storm blowing up -- a whopper,
to speak in the vernacular of the
peasantry.
Poor little kid -- I hope she
gets home all right.
Hunk, get them horses loose! Where's Hickory. Hickory! Hickory! Doggone it! Hick—
Right here.
Hey, what are you doing there?
This is my chance! The cyclone is coming. Let me show you what my machine can do!
what are you doing there?
This is my chance! The cyclone is coming.
Let me show you what my machine can do!
You see, it goes --
Doggone you! Help Hunk get them horses loose!
All right - you'll be sorry.
Doggone you!
Help Hunk get them horses loose!
Go on, hurry up! Hurry up, I tell you!
She's here -- it's a twister!
Dorothy!
Dorothy!   Dorothy!
Come on -- everybody in the storm cellar!
I can't find Dorothy!
She's somewhere out in the storm!
Dorothy!
Auntie Em!
The window blows loose – hits Dorothy on the head – she falls to floor – then gets up dazed – sits on edge of bed – Toto jumps up near her – she lies back on bed
We're not on the ground, Toto!
We must be up inside....
Toto looks out from under bed --
DOROTHY o.s.
the cyclone.
...the cyclone.
Dorothy reacts -- turns --
Dorothy o.s.: ...the cyclone.
Miss Gulch floats in -- riding her bicycle --
Dorothy reacts -- looks down to Toto --
Miss Gulch moves in closer to window -- her bicycle changes to broomstick -- her clothes into the flying robe and pointed hat --
Dorothy looking o.s. - reacts - puts her hands over her eyes -
Dorothy lies face down on the bed --
her hands over her eyes
lies face down on the bed
throws herself down on the bed
screams
Dorothy screaming
lying on bed
Dorothy screams
screaming
The house whirling in the background
lying on bed
Dorothy screams
screaming
screams
she looks around
Dorothy gets up off the bed
Dorothy goes to b.g.
Dorothy picks up the basket
Dorothy opens door
Dorothy walks forward
looking around o.s.
Dorothy enters from l.f.g. and opens the door
I've a feeling we're not in Kansas anymore.
We must be over the rainbow!
Now I -- I know we're not in Kansas.
Are you a good witch, or a bad witch?
Who, me? Why, I'm not a witch at all.
I'm Dorothy Gale from Kansas.
Oh! Well....
Oh!
Well....
is that the Witch?
Toto's my dog.
Well, I'm a little muddled. The Munchkins called me because a new witch has just dropped a house on the Wicked Witch of the East. And there's the house, and here you are, and that's all...
That's left of the Wicked Witch of the East.
And so what the Munchkins want to know...
And Glinda looks o.s. to Dorothy and speaks –
that's left of the Wicked Witch of the East.
...is, are you a good witch, or a bad witch?
Oh, but I've already told you, I'm not a witch at all – witches are old and ugly.
What was that?
The Munchkins. They're laughing because I am a witch. I'm Glinda, the Witch of the North.
The Munchkins. They're laughing because I am a witch.
I'm Glinda, the Witch of the North.
Dorothy looks to l.f.g. – reacts – speaks – curtsies –
You are! Oh, I beg your pardon! But I've never heard of a beautiful witch before.
Only bad witches are ugly.
...witch before.
Dorothy reacts to noise.
Glinda sings.
Only bad witches are ugly.
The Munchkins are happy because you have freed them from the Wicked Witch of the East.
Oh. But, if you please -- what are Munchkins?
The little people who live in this land -- it's Munchkinland, and you are their
But, if you please -- what are Munchkins?
The little people who live in this land -- it's Munchkinland, and you are their national heroine, my dear.
It's all right -- you may all come out and thank her.
It's all right now -- you may all come out.
(sings)
Come out, come out, wherever you are And meet the young lady who fell from a star.
Come out, come out, wherever you are
And meet the young lady who fell from a star.
She fell from the sky, she fell very far.
And Kansas she says is the name of the star.
Kansas she says is the name of the star.
She brings you good news.   Or haven't you heard?
She brings you good news. Or haven't you heard?
When she fell out of Kansas, a miracle occurred.
It really was no miracle. What happened was just this:
The wind began to switch -- the house to pitch And suddenly the hinges started to unhitch.
Just then, the witch -- to satisfy an itch -- Went flying on her broomstick thumbing.
what happened was just this:
The wind began to switch -- the house to pitch And suddenly
the hinges started to unhitch.
Just then, the witch -- to
satisfy an itch -- Went flying on her broomstick thumbing
for... MLS --
Munchkin dances forward and sings -- others
behind him move to him and sing --
DOROTHY o.s. (sings) ...a hitch.
And oh, what happened then was rich!
The house began to pitch The kitchen took
a slitch
The house began to pitch
The kitchen took a slitch
It landed on the Wicked Witch
In the middle of a ditch
Which was not a healthy situation For the Wicked Witch.
The house began to pitch
The kitchen took a slitch
It landed on the Wicked Witch
In the middle of a ditch
Which was not a healthy situation For the Wicked Witch.
The house began to pitch
The kitchen took
a slitch
It landed on the Wicked Witch in
the middle of a ditch
Which Was not a healthy...
The house began to pitch
The kitchen took
a slitch
It landed on the Wicked Witch in
the middle of a ditch
Which Was not a healthy...
Dorothy and Glinda at right -- Munchkins sing --
The house began to pitch
The kitchen took
a slitch
It landed on the Wicked Witch in
the middle of a ditch
Which Was not a healthy...
sitch-
The Wicked Witch, Who Began to twitch And was
reduced To just a stitch Of what was once
The Wicked....
The Wicked Witch!
We thank you very sweetly For doing it so neatly.
You've killed her so completely That we thank you very sweetly.
The Wicked Old Witch at last is dead!
Ding Dong! The Wicked Witch is dead.
Which old Witch?
The Wicked Witch!
Wake up, you sleepy head. Rub your eyes Get out of bed. Wake up, the Wicked...
Witch is dead!
She's gone where the Goblins go Below...Below...Below Yo – ho, let's open up and sing And ring the bells out. Ding Dong!
The merry-oh! Sing it high Sing it....
Let them know The Wicked Witch is dead!
As Mayor of the Munchkin City In the County of the Land of Oz I welcome you most regally
But we've got to verify it legally To see...
To see?
If she...
If she?
Is morally, ethic'ly
Spiritually, physically
Positively, absolutely
Undeniably and reliably Dead!
As Coroner, I must aver I thoroughly examined her. And she's not only merely
As Coroner, I must aver I thoroughly examined her. And she's not only merely dead, She's really, most sincerely dead.
Then this is a day of Independence For all the Munchkins and their descendants!
If any!
Yes, let the joyous news be spread.
The Wicked Old Witch at last is dead!
Ding Dong! The Witch is dead. Which old witch?
The Wicked Witch!
Ding Dong! The Witch is dead.
Ding Dong! The Wicked Witch is dead!
Wake up, you sleepy head! Rub your eyes,
Get out of bed.
Wake up, the Wicked Witch is dead!
She's gone where the Goblins go Below...below...below.
Yo ho, let's open up and sing,
And ring the bells out.
Ding Dong! The merry-
Ding Dong! The Wicked Witch is dead!
Wake up, you sleepy head! Rub your eyes,
Get out of bed.
Wake up, the Wicked Witch is dead! She's gone
where the Goblins go Below...below...below.
Yo ho, let's open
up and sing, And ring the bells out.
Ding Dong! The merry-
oh!
Sing it high,
Sing it low.
Let them know The Wicked Witch
is dead!
We represent the Lullaby League, the
Lullaby League,
The Lullaby League And in the name of the Lullaby League We
wish to welcome you to Munchkinland.
We look to r.f.g. and sing and dance-
We represent the Lollypop Guild, the Lollypop Guild, The Lollypop Guild
And in the name of the Lollypop Guild
We wish to welcome you to Munchkinland.
We welcome you to Munchkinland Tra la la
la la la
Tra la la tra la la Tra la la la la la la
From now on you'll be history
You'll be hist...
You'll be history
And we will glorify your name
You'll be a bust...
Be a bust...
In the hall of fame!
Tra la la la la
Tra la la tra la la Tra la la la la la
I thought you said she was dead.
That was her sister -- the Wicked Witch
of the East. This is the Wicked Witch of
the West. And she's worse than the other.
the West. And she's worse than the other
one was.
Who killed my sister? Who killed the
Witch of the East? Was it you? Answer me!
Leave her alone!
Who killed my sister? Who killed the Witch of the East? Was it you? Answer me!
You stay out of this! I'm here for vengeance! So it was you, was it? You killed her,...
didn't you?
It was an accident! I didn't mean to kill anybody!...
Really I didn't!
Didn't mean it, eh? Accident, eh? Well, my little pretty, I can cause accidents, too — and this is how I do it!
Didn't mean it, eh? Accident, eh? Well, my little pretty, I can cause accidents, too -- and this is how I do it!
Aren't you forgetting the ruby slippers?
The slippers -- yes.....the slippers!
They're gone!
Glinda stops her, points down to Dorothy's feet --
The ruby slippers! What have you done with them? Give them back to me, or I'll -
It's too late! There they....
are, and there they'll stay!
...are, and there they'll stay!
Oh!
Give me back my slippers!
I'm the only one that knows how to use them. They're of no use to you! Give them back to me!
Give them back!
Keep tight inside of them — their magic must be very powerful, or she wouldn't want them so badly!
Their magic must be very powerful, or she wouldn't want them so badly!
You stay out of this, Glinda, or I'll fix you as well!
Oh, rubbish! You have no power here. Be gone, before somebody drops a house on you, too.
Very well -- I'll bide my time -- and as for you, my fine lady, it's true, I can't
Very well -- I'll bide my time -- and as for you, my fine lady, it's true, I can't attend to you here and now as I'd like, but just try to stay out of my way....
just try!
I'll get you, my....
pretty, and your little dog, too!
It's all right. You can get up — she's gone.
It's all right. You can all get up.
Glinda and Dorothy —
Glinda instructs Dorothy, kisses her on the forehead —
Pooh – what a smell of sulphur! I'm afraid you've made rather a bad enemy of the Wicked Witch of the West. The sooner you get out of Oz altogether, the safer you'll sleep, my dear.
Oh, I'd give anything to get out of Oz altogether – but which is the way back to Kansas? I can't go the way I came.
sleep, my dear.
Oh, I'd give anything to get out of Oz
altogether -- but which is the way back
to Kansas? I can't go the way I came.
The only person who
might know would be the great and
wonderful Wizard of Oz himself!
The Wizard of Oz? Is he good or is he
wicked?
Oh, very good, but very mysterious. He
lives in the Emerald City, and that's a
Is he good or is he wicked?
Oh, very good, but very mysterious. He lives in the Emerald City, and that's a long journey from here. Did you bring your broomstick with you?
No, I'm afraid I didn't.
Well, then, you'll have to walk. The Munchkins will see you safely to the
Well, then, you'll have to walk. The Munchkins will see you safely to the border of Munchkinland. And remember, never let those ruby slippers off your feet for a moment, or you will be at the mercy of the Wicked Witch of the West.
But, how do I start for Emerald City?
It's always best to start at the beginning -- and all you do is follow the Yellow Brick Road.
But do I start for Emerald City?
Just follow the Yellow Brick Road.
she speaks –
she looks up, open-mouthed with astonishment –
My – ! People come and go so quickly here!
Follow the Yellow Brick Road.
Follow the Yellow Brick Road?
Follow the Yellow Brick Road. Follow the Yellow Brick Road. Follow, follow, follow, Follow the Yellow Brick Road. Follow the Yellow Brick Follow the...
Follow the Yellow Brick
Follow the Yellow Brick Follow
the...
...Yellow Brick
Follow the Yellow Brick Road. You're off to see the Wizard
The Wonderful Wizard of Oz You'll find he is a whiz of a Wiz
Yellow Brick
If ever a Wiz there was. If ever oh ever a Wiz there was The
Wizard of Oz Is one because Because, because, because,
because, because... Because of the wonderful things he
does
You're off to see the Wizard
The Wonderful Wizard of Oz!
Follow the Yellow Brick Road?
Follow the Yellow....?
Now which way do we go?
Which way do we go?
Who said that?
Toto barking at the Scarecrow o.s.
Dorothy, looking down at Toto as he barks o.s. --
DOROTHY
Who said that?
Don't be silly, Toto.
Scarecrows....
It's pleasant down that way, too.
That's funny. Wasn't he pointing the other way?
Of course, people do...
go both ways!
Why....
you did say something, didn't you?
Are you doing that on purpose, or can't
you make up your mind?
That's the trouble. I can't make up my
mind. I haven't got a brain -- only
straw.
That's the trouble. I can't make up my mind. I haven't got a brain -- only straw.
How can you talk if you haven't got a....
I don't know. But some people without brains do an awful lot of talking, don't they?
I don't know. But some people without brains do an awful lot of talking, don't they?<br>
Yes, I guess you're right.<br>
Well, we haven't really met properly, have we?
Why, no.
How do you do?
Very well, thank you.
Oh, I'm not feeling at all well. You see, it's very tedious being stuck up here all day long with a pole up your
Oh, dear — that must be terribly uncomfortable. Can't you get down?
Down? No, you see, I'm — Well, — I'm —
Oh, well, here — let me help you.
Oh, that's very kind of you — very kind.
Well, oh, dear — I don't quite see...
how I can —
Of course, I'm not bright about doing
how I can --
...bend the nail down in the back, maybe I'll slip off and...
Oh....
Ohhhh --
Ohh!
Whhhooops! Ha-ha -- there goes some of me again!
Oh -- does it hurt you?
Oh, no -- I just keep picking it up and putting it back in again.
My, it's good to be.... free!
Dorothy screams as the Scarecrow whirls about and falls over the cornfield fence -- she rushes to him -- the CAMERA TRUCKS forward as she kneels beside him -- they speak -
...free!
free!
Oh! Oh! Ohhh!
Did I scare you?
No, No -- I -- I just thought you hurt
yourself.
But I didn't scare you?
No -- of course not.
I didn't think so.
Boo! Scat!
Boo! You see, I can't even scare a crow!
They come from miles....
...around just to eat in my field and laugh in my face!
Oh, I'm a failure, because I haven't got
a brain.
Well, what would you do with a brain if
you had one?
Do?  Why, if I had a brain, I could --
I could while away the hours, Conferrin'
Do?
Why, if I had a brain, I could --
with the flowers, Consultin' with the
rain. And my head I'd be scratchin' While
my thoughts were busy hatchin' If I only
had a brain. I'd unravel every riddle For
any individ'le
With the thoughts you'll be thinkin' You
could be another Lincoln If you only had
a brain.
Oh, I could tell you why The ocean's near
the shore I could think of things I never
Oh, I could tell you why
The ocean's near
thunk before,
I would not be just
a nuffin'
My head all full of stuffin'
My heart all full of pain.
I would dance and be merry...
Dance and be merry...
Life would be a ding-a-derry If I only
had a brain!
feels about his coat
points to some of his straw on the road
trembles with fear
tries to comfort him
The crow picks up the straw and flies up
Dorothy and the Scarecrow react
The Scarecrow rises, goes to the fence and shakes his fist at the crow flying over the cornfield in the b.g.
The Scarecrow dances back to right along the road
The Scarecrow dances back to right along the road.
Dorothy rushes to him, stops him and points o.s. to left.
The crow lands in the cornfield.
Dorothy and the Scarecrow looking o.s. to left.
The Scarecrow reacts, assures Dorothy.
The Scarecrow dances forward, gains momentum and runs out to left.
The Scarecrow runs to left, makes a big jump over the cornfield.
The Scarecrow jumps in from right and lands in the cornfield.
Several crows fly out of the corn.
Dorothy runs forward to the fence, reacts as she looks o.s. to f.g.
The Scarecrow moves to right through the corn.
The Scarecrow jumps in from right and lands in the cornfield – several crows fly out of the corn
The Scarecrow moves to right through the corn stalks
The Scarecrow bends down, finds his straw and stuffs it back into his coat
The Scarecrow runs forward, jumps into the air and flies out to right f.g.
The Scarecrow soars over the field to the road
Dorothy waves to him
The Scarecrow falls into the scene as he lands on the Yellow Brick Road
the Scarecrow begins to dance again, doing a series of splits
Toto jumps on a pumpkin, starts it rolling out onto the Yellow Brick Road at right
Toto follows the pumpkin as it rolls forward
dorothy looked on, frightened
scarecrow falls back into scene and lands on the Yellow Brick Road
he runs out to left
he dances forward, bumping into one side of
looks up
The Scarecrow falls back into scene and lands on the Yellow Brick Road
he runs out to left
The Scarecrow sits up, looks about, blinks his eyes
Dorothy reacts as she starts forward, looks o.s. to f.g.
The Scarecrow bounces off a fence rail and starts to dance forward down the road as he sings – some straw falls from his coat – the Scarecrow slumps to the
Gosh, it would be awful pleasin' To
reason out the reason For things I can't
explain. Then perhaps I'll deserve you,
And be even worthy erv you If I only had
a brain.
Wonderful! Why, if our Scarecrow back in Kansas could do that, the crows'd be scared to pieces!
They would?
Dorothy, why, if our Scarecrow back in Kansas could do that, the crows'd be scared to pieces!
Um-hmm.
Where's Kansas?
That's where I live. And I want to get back there so badly I'm going all the way to Emerald City to get the Wizard of Oz to help me.
You're going to see a Wizard?
so badly I'm going all the way
to Emerald City to get the Wizard of Oz
to help me.
You're going to see a Wizard?
Um-hmm.
Do you think if I went with you this Wizard would give me some brains?
I couldn't say. But even if he didn't,
I couldn't say. But even if he didn't, you'd be no worse off than you are now.
Yes -- that's true.
But maybe you'd better not. I've got a witch mad at me, and you might get into trouble.
Witch? Huh! I'm not afraid of a witch!
I'm not afraid of anything --- except a
I'm not afraid of anything --- except a lighted match.
I don't blame you for that.
But I'd face a whole box full of them for the chance of getting some brains. Look - I won't be any trouble, because I don't eat a thing -- and I won't try to manage things, because I can't think. Won't you take me with you?
Why, of course I will!
Hooray! We're off to see a Wizard!
Oh -- well -- you're not starting out very well.
Oh, I'll try! Really, I will.
To Oz?
To Oz!
We're off to see the Wizard The Wonderful Wizard of Oz We hear he is a whiz of a Wiz If ever a Wiz there was If ever oh ever a Wiz there was, The Wizard of Oz Is one because Because, because, because, because, because
Because of the wonderful things he does.
We're off to see the Wizard The Wonderful Wizard of Oz!
Oh -- apples -- Oh look!
Oh.
Oh ---
Oh --
Oh -- apples -- Oh look!
Oh.
Oh ---
Ouch!
What do you think you're doing?
We've been walking a long ways and I was
We've been walking a long ways and I was hungry and --
Did you say....
She....
was hungry! Well, how would you like to have someone come along and pick something off of you?
Oh, dear -- I keep forgetting I'm not in Kansas.
Come along, Dorothy -- you don't want any
Come along, Dorothy -- you don't want any of those apples. Hmm!
What do you mean - she doesn't want any of those apples? Are you hinting my apples aren't what they ought to be?
Oh, no! It's just that she doesn't like little green....
...worms!
Oh....
...you...
you...
Oh -- Help -- let me out.   I'll give
you little green....
worms.
You can't....
...do that to me!
I'll....
...show you!
You can't do that!
Hey!
Hooray!
Hooray! I guess that did it! Help yourself.
Oh --
Why, it's a man! A man made out of tin!
What?
Yes.    Oh -- look --
Oil can.....Oil can....
Oil can....
Oil can?
Oil can what?
Oh -- oh, here it is!
Where do you want to be oiled first?
My mouth -- my mouth!
Here -- here --
my mouth --
He said his mouth.
The other side....
Yes --- there.
Mm.....mm...mm....
Tin Man: Mm.....mm...mm....
m...m...my, my, my, my goodness – I can talk again! Oh – oil my arms, please – oil my elbows.
Oh...
Oh, did that hurt?
No – it feels wonderful. I've held that axe up for ages. Oh ---
No -- it feels wonderful.
I've held that axe up for ages. Oh ---
Oh, goodness! How did you ever get like this?
Oh -- well, about a year ago -- I was chopping that tree -- minding my own business -- when suddenly it started to rain....
and right in the middle of a chop,
I...I rusted solid. And I've been that
way ever since.
Well, you're perfect now.
I rusted solid. And I've been that way ever since.
My...my neck. My...my neck. Perfect?
Oh -- bang on my chest if you think I'm perfect. Go ahead -- bang on it!
Oh --!
Beautiful! What an echo!
It's empty. The tinsmith forgot to give me a heart.
Beautiful!
What an echo!
It's empty. The tinsmith forgot to give
me a heart.
No heart?
Oh --
All hollow. Oh --
When a man's an empty kettle, He should
be on his mettle. And yet I'm torn apart.
Just because I'm presumin' That I could
be kind-a human, If I only had a heart.
I'd be tender
I'd be gentle
And awful sentimental
Regarding Love and Art I'd be
friends with sparrows...
...And the boy who shoots the arrows
And the boy who shoots the arrows If I
only had a heart. Picture me....a
balcony....
Wherefore art thou, Romeo?
And the boy who shoots the arrows If I
only had a heart. Picture me....a
balcony.... Above a voice sings low.
Wherefore art thou, Romeo?
I hear a beat....how sweet! Just to
register emotion Jealousy -- Devotion --
And really feel the part, I could stay
young and chipper, And I'd lock it with a
zipper, If I only had a heart...!
how sweet!
Just to register emotion Jealousy -- Devotion --
And really feel the part, I could stay young and chipper,
And I'd lock it with a zipper,
If I only had a heart...!
oils it
thanks them
whispers to the Scarecrow
he jumps forward slightly, folds his arms, then locks in that position – starts to lean to left
Oh
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, are you all right?
I'm afraid I'm a little rusty yet.
Oh, dear -- That was wonderful! You know -- we were just wondering why you couldn't come to Emerald City with us to ask the Wizard of Oz for a heart.
Emerald City? Why, that's a long and dangerous journey. And it might rain on the way.
But you've just been saying how much you want a heart.
And I'll keep the oil-can handy.
Well, suppose the Wizard wouldn't get me one when we got there?
Oh, but he will! He must! We've come such a long way already.
Ohh -- what's that? Oh --
You call that long?
Oooh -- look out!
Why, you've just begun!
Forgotten about me,...
Helping the little lady along, are you,
my fine gentlemen?
Well, I haven't forgotten about you!
Helping the little lady along, are you, my fine gentlemen?
Or I'll stuff a mattress with you!
And you! I'll use you for a beehive! (laughs)
I'll use you for a beehive! (laughs)
Here, Scarecrow!   Want to play ball?
And as for you, my little....
CS - Witch speaks to Dorothy o.s. -
WITCH
Dorothy, I wish....
...you luck with the Wizard of Oz. And a....
...happy journey back to Kansas!
...
I'm not afraid of her. I'll see you get safely to the Wizard now, whether I get a brain or not! Stuff a mattress with me! Hah!
I'll see you reach the Wizard, whether I get a heart or not.
Bee-hive -- bah!
Let her try and make a bee-hive out of me!
Hmm? What's that?
Oh! They're - they're gone now.
Oh, goodness! Did any of them sting you?
I - I guess they tried to, but they bent their stingers.
Oh, dear. I don't know what I'd do if a whole swarm kept -- Oh! Oh! Oh, there's one on me!
Oh - I'll get it!
Oh! Oh!
CS - Scarecrow - Dorothy and Tin Man - Tin Man looks at dead bee in his hand - speaks and cries -
Oh!
Oh --
Oh-oh-
Oh, see - I killed it. Oh, I killed that poor little honey bee!
It's only a man without a head who could do a thing like that. Poor little bee.
Oh, there....
There. Don't cry.
As a matter of fact, that's just an old
As a matter of fact, that's just an old drone bee, and it would have died....
You put it out of its misery.
Oh.
...just that the Witch is so wicked. I
don't think you two ought to come with me
because you'll get into trouble.
Oh, you don't think we're going to stand
by and let her get away with fireballs
don't think you two ought to come with me
because you'll get into trouble.
Oh, you don't think we're going to stand
by and let her get away with fireballs
and bees, do you?
No, sir!
Oh, you're the best friends anybody ever
had! And it's funny, but I feel as if
I've known you all the time. But I
couldn't have, could I?
Oh, you're the best friends anybody ever had!
I feel as if I've known you all the time. But I couldn't have, could I?
I don't see how. You weren't around when I was stuffed and sewn together, were you?
And I was standing over there rusting for the longest time.
Still, I wish I could remember. But, I guess it doesn't matter anyway.
Still, I wish I could remember.
But, I guess it doesn't matter anyway.
We know each other now, don't we?
That's right.
We do.
To Oz!
We're off to see the Wizard
The Wonderful Wizard of Oz
We hear he is a whiz of a
Wiz If ever a Wiz there was.
If ever, oh ever a Wiz there was
The Wizard of Oz is one
Because Because, because, because,
because, because
Because of the wonderful things he does
We're off to see the
Wizard The Wonderful Wizard of Oz!
I don't like this forest!
It's -- it's dark and creepy!
Of course, I don't know, but I think it'll get darker before it gets lighter.
dark and creepy!
Do -- do you suppose we'll meet any wild animals?
We might.
Oh --
Animals that -- that eat straw?
Some -- but mostly lions, and tigers, and
Some -- but mostly lions, and tigers, and bears.
Lions?
And tigers?
And bears.
Oh! Lions and tigers and bears!
Oh!
Oh, my!
Lions and tigers and bears!
(screams)
And bears!
What sort of an animal is that?
It-it-it-it - it's a huge one!
D-d-d-don't be fr-fr-frightened. I - I'll
protect you. Oh, look!
(Lion growling)
CU -- Lion growling -- CS -- Scarecrow trembling -- CU -- Lion growling
Put 'em up! Put 'em....
...up! Which one of you first? I'll
up! Which one of you first? I'll fight you both together if you want!
I'll fight you with one paw tied behind my back. I'll fight you standing on one foot.
I'll fight you with my eyes closed. Oh – pulling an axe on me, eh?
Sneaking up on me, eh?
Why!
(snarls)
Here -- here. Go 'way and let us alone!
Afraid, huh?
How long can you stay fresh in that can?
(laughs)
Come on — get up and fight, you
Now that's getting personal, Lion.
Yes -- get up and teach him a lesson.
Well -- what's -- wrong with you teaching him?
Well -- well --, I hardly know him.
Well, I'll get you, anyway, Pee-Wee.
Dorothy slaps his hand.
he backs away—crying.
Shame on you!
What — what did you do that for? I didn't bite him.
No, but you tried to.
didn't bite him.
It's bad enough picking on a straw man,
but when you go around picking on poor
little dogs --
Well, you didn't have to go and hit me,
did you? Is my nose bleeding?
Well, of course not. My goodness, what a
fuss you're making. Well, naturally,
when you go around picking on things
weaker than you are -- Why, you're
nothing but a great big coward!
You're right -- I am a coward.
I haven't any courage at all. I even
I haven't any courage at all. I even scare myself. Look at the circles under my eyes.
I haven't slept in weeks.
Why don't you try counting sheep?
That doesn't do any good -- I'm afraid of 'em.
Oh, that's too bad. Don't you think the Wizard could help him, too?
I don't see why not. Why don't you come along with us? We're on our way to see
I don't see why not. Why don't you come along with us? We're on our way to see the Wizard now. To get him a heart.
And him a brain.
I'm sure he could give you some courage.
Well, wouldn't you feel degraded to be seen in the company of a cowardly lion?
I would.
No, of course not.
Gee, that's -- that's awfully nice of you. My life....
that's — that's awfully nice of
you. My life....
...has been simply unbearable.
Oh.
Yeh, it's sad, believe me, Missy When
you're born to be a sissy, Without the
vim and verve. But I could show my
prowess -- Be a lion not a mou-ess -- If
I only had the nerve I'm afraid there's
no denyin' I'm just a dande-lion -- A
fate I don't deserve. I'd be brave as a
blizzard --
I'd be brave as a blizzard --
I'd be gentle as a lizard --
I'd be clever as a gizzard --
If the Wizard is a Wizard who will serve.
Then I'm sure to get a brain --
A heart --
A home --
A home
The nerve.
Oh, we're off to see the Wizard
The Wonderful Wizard of Oz. We hear he is a
whiz of a Wiz If ever a Wiz there was....
...If ever, oh ever, a Wiz there was The
Wizard of Oz is one because
Because, because, because, because, because
Because of the wonderful things he does!
If ever, oh ever, a Wiz there was The
Wizard of Oz is one because Because,
because, because, because, because
Because of the wonderful things he does!
We're off to see the Wizard The Wonderful
Wizard of Oz!
A-hah!
(laughs)
So! You won't take warning, eh? All the worse for you, then. I'll take care of you now instead of later! Hah! When I gain those ruby slippers, my power will be the greatest in Oz! And now, my beauties! Something with poison in it, I think. With poison in it, but attractive
When I gain those ruby slippers, my power will be the greatest in Oz!
Something with poison in it, I think. With poison in it, but attractive to the eye -- and soothing to the smell!
Poppies! Poppies! Poppies!
LAP DISSOLVE TO:
LS -- Poppy Field -- CAMERA PANS up -- then PANS left over field -- to edge of forest -- Dorothy -- Scarecrow -- Lion and Tin Man coming forward out of forest -- MCS -- Dorothy -- Lion -- Tin Man and Scarecrow all looking o.s.
DOROTHY
There's Emerald... City!
Oh, we're almost there at last!
At last!
It's beautiful, isn't it? Just like I knew it would be. He really must be a wonderful Wizard to live in a City like that!
Well, come on, then. What are we waiting for?
that!
Let's hurry!
Yes – let's run!
Yes.
Come on — come on —
Hurry — hurry —
Oh!
Oh, come on, come on!
Look -- you can see it here.
It's wonderful!
Emerald City!
Oh -- Oh -- what's happening? What is it?
I can't run anymore. I'm so....
...sleepy.
Here -- give us your hands, and we'll pull you....
...along.
Oh, no -- please. I have to rest.
Oh, no -- please. I have to rest for just a minute.
Where's Toto --
Oh, you can't rest now -- we're nearly there!
What did she -- do that for?
Hey, Dorothy!
Dorothy!
You can't sleep here!
You can't sleep in the middle of a field!
She won't hear any of you again!
And there's nothing you can
sleep in the middle of a field!
laughs
Call away! Call away! She won't hear any
of you again! And there's nothing you can
do about it, either.
laughs
Bring me my wishing cap! I'll call the
Winged Monkeys to fetch me those
slippers! Hurry! Hurry! Hurry! Hurry! It
worked very smoothly!
Oh - oh, poor Dorothy!
Don't cry -- you'll rust yourself again!
Comin' to think of it, forty winks
wouldn't be bad.
- Don't cry -- you'll rust yourself again!
- Comin' to think of it, forty winks wouldn't be bad.
- Don't you start it, too!
- We ought to try and carry Dorothy.
- I don't think I could, but we could try.
- Let's.
- Yes.
Oh -- now look at him!
This is terrible!
Here, Tin Man -- help me.
CS -- Dorothy
as Scarecrow tries to lift her --
Tin Man and Scarecrow -- Dorothy and Lion lying among poppies --
Tin Man and Scarecrow react -- call for help --
Oh, this is terrible -- can't budge her an inch! This is a spell, this is!
It's the Wicked Witch!   What'll we do?
Help! HELP!
It's no use screaming at a time like this! Nobody will hear you! Help!
HELP
HELP!
Look - It's snowing!
It isn't snowing. It couldn't be! But it is!
No, it isn't! Yes, it is!
Oh, maybe that'll help!
It's snowing!
It isn't snowing. It couldn't be! But it is!
No, it isn't! Yes, it is! Oh, maybe that'll help!
It does help. Dorothy, you're waking up!
Oh --
Oh -- unusual weather we're having, ain't it?
Look! He's rusted again. Oh, give me the oil can -- quick!
Oh-oh, quick!
Look! He's rusted again. Oh, give me the oil can -- quick! Oh-oh, quick!
Yes -- there --
Oh -- here quick -- oh!
A hot water bottle would be good if we had one.
Oh, he's been crying! Why have you been --
Curse it! Curse it! Somebody always helps that girl! But shoes or no shoes, I'm still great enough to conquer her. And woe to those who try to stop me!
Come on — let's get out of here! Look —
Emerald City is closer and prettier than ever!
You're out of the woods
You're out of the dark
You're out of the night
Step into the sun
Step into the light
Keep straight ahead for....
You're out of the woods
You're out of the dark
You're out of the night
Step into the sun
Step into the light
Keep straight ahead for...
The most glorious place --
To the Emerald City -- as fast as
lightning!
Of the earth or the sky
Hold onto your breath
Hold onto your heart
Hold onto your hope
March up to the gate
And bid it open --- open --- open.
Who rang that bell?
We did.
Can't you read?
Read what?
The notice!
It's on the door -- as plain as the nose on my face! It -- Oh -- CU -- Doorman reacts -- starts out --
What notice?
It's on the door -- as plain as the nose on my face!
Bell out of order. Please knock.
Well, that's more like it. Now, state your business!
We want to see the Wizard.
Ooooh! The Wizard? But nobody can see the Great Oz! Nobody's ever seen the Great Oz! Even I've never seen him!
Well, then -- how do you know there is one?
Because he -- I -- Oh, you're wasting my
Because he -- I -- Oh, you're wasting my time!
Prove it.
She's wearing the ruby slippers she gave her.
Oh....
so she is! Well, bust my buttons!
Why didn't you say that in the.... first place? That's a horse.... of a different color!
Come on in!
of a different color!
Cabby! Cabby! Just what you're looking
for! Take you any place in the City, we
does.
Well, would you take us to see the
Wizard?
Well, would you take us to see the Wizard?
The Wizard? The Wizard? I -- can't --
Well -- Yes, of course. But first I'll take you to a little place where you can....
...tidy up a bit -- what?
Oh, thank you so much. We've been gone such a long time, and we feel so mess—
What kind of a horse is that? I've never seen a horse like that before!
tidy up a bit — what?
No — and never will again, I fancy.
No -- and never will again, I fancy.
There's only one of him, and he's it.
He's the Horse of a Different Color, you've heard tell about.
(sings)
Ha -- ha -- ha --
Ho -- ho -- ho -- And a couple of tra -- la -- las. That's how we laugh the day away In the Merry Old Land of Oz. Bzz -- bzz -- bzz -- Chirp -- Chirp -- Chirp -- And a couple of la -- di....
And a couple of tra — la — las.
Bzz — bzz — bzz — Chirp — Chirp — Chirp — And a couple of la — di —
...das —
...And start to work at one
Take an hour
And start to work at one
Take an hour for lunch....
And then at two we're done
Jolly good fun!
And then at two we're done Jolly good fun!
Ha -- ha -- ha -- Ho -- ho -- ho -- And a couple of tra -- la
-- las. That's how we laugh the day away In the Merry Old
Land of Oz! Ha -- ha -- ha -- Ho -- ho -- ho -- Ha -- ha --
ha -- ha That's how we laugh the day away With a ho -- ho -
- ho Ha -- ha -- ha In the Merry Old Land of Oz!
Pat, pat here,
Pat, pat there, And a couple of brand new strawz. That's how we keep you young and fair In the Merry Old Land of Oz.
Pat, pat there, And a couple of brand new strawz. That's how
we keep you young and fair In the Merry Old Land of Oz.
Rub, rub here,
Rub, rub there, And whether you're tin or brahz. That's how
we keep you in repair In the Merry Old Land of Oz!
We can make a dimpled smile out of a
frown --
We can make a dimpled smile out of a frown --
Can you even dye my eyes to match my gown?
Uh-huh.
Jolly old town!
Clip, clip here,
Clip, clip there. We give the roughest clawz
That certain air of savoir faire In the
Merry Old Land of Oz!
Ha -- ha -- ha --
Ho -- ho --ho
Ho -- ho --ho -- ho
Hah!
That's how we laugh the day away In the Merry Old Land of Oz! That's how we laugh....
That's how we laugh the day away In the
Merry Old Land of Oz! That's how we laugh...
...the day away – Ha –
ha – ha –
In the Merry Old Land of Oz! Ha – ha –
ha –
Ho – Ho – ho –
ha -- ha --
ho -- ho -- ho --
Who's her? Who's her?
It's the Witch! She's followed us here!
Can't that female take no for an answer?
Oh --
Surender Dorothy or die! W. W.
Dorothy? Who's Dorothy?
The Wizard will explain it!
To the Wizard!
Dear, whatever shall we do?
Well, we'd better hurry if we're going to see the Wizard!
Here -- here -- here -- wait a minute!
Wait a minute! Stop - stop - stop!
Wait a minute!
Stop - stop - stop!
It's all right!
Everything is all right!
The Great and Powerful Oz has got matters well in hand - I hope --
So you can all go....
got matters well in hand – I hope -- So you can all go....
home -- and there's nothing to worry
about.
If you please, sir. We want to see the
Wizard right away -- all four of us.
If you please, sir. We want to see the Wizard right away -- all four of us.
Orders are -- nobody can see the Great Oz! Not nobody -- not nohow!
Not nobody -- not nohow!
Oh, but we must!
Orders are - not nobody! Not nohow!
He's in conference with himself on
account of this....
He's in conference with himself on account of this....
...trouble with the Witch. And even if he wasn't you wouldn't have been able to see him anyway on account of nobody has - not even us in the Palace!
Oh, but -- but please. It's very important.
And -- and I got a permanent just for the occasion.
...nohow!
Pardon me. We've gotta change the guards.
nohow!
Now - what do you want?
We want to see the Wizard.
Not nobody! Not....
...nohow!
That's what the other man said.
nohow!
But she's Dorothy!
The Witch's Dorothy? Well -- that makes a difference. Just wait here -- I'll announce you at once.
Just wait here -- I'll announce you at once.
Did you hear that? He'll announce us at once! I've as good as got my brain!
I can fairly hear my heart beating!
I'll be home in time for supper!
I've as good as got my brain!
In another hour, I'll be King of the Forest. Long Live the King!
If....
I were King of the Forest, Not Queen, not Duke, not Prince....
My regal robes of the forest....
Would be satin, and not cotton, and not chintz.
I'd command each thing, be it fish or fowl.
With a woof and a woof, and a royal growl.
I'd click my heel All the trees would kneel And the mountains bow And the bulls kowtow
And the sparrow would take wing 'F -- I...'f -- I...were King!
And the sparrow would take wing 'F
I...'f – I...were King!
Each rabbit would show respect to me.
The chipmunks...
...genuflect to me. Though my tail would
lash I would show compash For every
underling. 'F – I...'f – I --- were
genuflect to me. Though my tail would lash I would show compash For every underling. 'F -- I...'f -- I --- were King Just King!
Each rabbit would show respect to him
And his wife would be Queen of the May.
I'd be monarch of all I survey....
The chipmunks genuflect to him
Monarch of all I survey....
Mah – hah – hah – hah – hah – hah –
hah – hah – hah – ha-narch!
Mah — hah — hah — hah — hah — hah —
hah — hah — hah — ha-narch!
Of all I survey!
Your Majesty, if you were king You
wouldn't be afraid of anything?
Your Majesty, if you were king You wouldn't be afraid of anything?
Not nobody, not nohow!
Not even a rhinoceros?
Imposserous!
How about a hippopotamus?
Why, I'd thrash him from top to bottomamus!
Supposin' you met an elephant?
I'd wrap him up in cellophant!
What if it were a brontosaurus?
I'd show him who was King of the Fores'!
How?
Courage!
What makes a King out of a slave? Courage!
What makes the flag on the mast to wave?
What makes the elephant charge his tusk in the misty....
What makes the elephant charge his tusk in the misty...
mist, or the dusky dusk? What makes the muskrat guard his musk? Courage!
What makes the sphinx the seventh wonder? Courage!
What makes the dawn come up like thunder? Courage! What makes the Hottentot so hot? What puts the "ape" in apricot?
What makes the dawn come up like thunder? Courage!
What makes the Hottentot so hot?
What puts the "ape" in apricot?
What have they got that I ain't got?
You can say that again!
Hah. Huh?!
Courage!
Hah.
Huh!?
Go on home! The Wizard says go away!
Go away?
Oh --
Looks like we came a long way for
Looks like we came a long way for nothing.
Oh -- and I was so happy! I thought I was on my way home!
Don't cry, Dorothy!
Would...would it do any good if I roared?
Who at?
SCARECROW
I don't know.
Auntie Em was so good to me -- and I never appreciated it. Running away -- and hurting her feelings.
Professor Marvel said she was sick. She may be dying -- and -- and it's all my fault!
sick. She
may be dying -- and -- and it's all my
fault!
Oh, I'll never forgive myself! Never --
never -- never!
Oh, oh – please don't cry any more.
I'll get you into the Wizard somehow.
Come on. I had an Aunt Em myself once.
Echo
Wait a minute, fellahs. I was just thinkin'. I really don't want to see the Wizard this much. I better wait for you outside.
What's the matter?
Oh, he's just ascared again.
Oh, he's just as scared again.
Don't you know the Wizard's going to give you some courage?
I'd be too scared to ask him for it.
Oh, well, then -- we'll ask him for you.
I'd sooner wait outside.
But why? Why?
Because I'm still scared!
Oh, come on.
Ohh!
What happened?
Somebody pulled my tail.
Oh, you did it yourself!
I -- Oh --
What was that?
Oh
Our echo.
Tap - tap - tap - tap - What was that - that - that? Our echo - echo - echo.
Oh, come on - come on! We'll soon find
the Wizard!
The Wizard - The Wizard - The Great and Powerful Wizard of Oz - Oz - Oz-Oz - Oz - Oz - Oz!
The Great Wizard of Oz. Come forward!
Tell me when it's over!
Oh!
Ohhhh -- I want to go home -- I want to go home!
Oh! Look at that! Look at that! Oh --
I am Oz, the Great and Powerful!
Who are you?
I -- If you please, I - I am Dorothy,
...
the small and meek.   We've come to ask
you --
Silence!
Dorothy reacts, turns and runs back to the others --
Dorothy returns to the other three -- speaks -
Ohhh -- Jiminy Crickets!
Tin Man!
Ohhhh -- it's me!
You dare to come to me for a heart, do you? You clinking, clanking, clattering collection of caliginous junk!
junk!
Ohhhh -- yes...yes, sir -- Y-Yes, your Honor.
Ohhhhhh!
Quiet!
Ohhhhhhh!
And you, Scarecrow, have the effrontery to ask for a brain?
And he speaks – salaams –
And you, Scarecrow, have the effrontery
to ask for a brain?
You billowing bale of bovine fodder!
Y-Yes -- Yes, Your Honor -- I mean, Your
Excellency -- I -- I mean -- Your Wizardry!
Enough!
Oh -- Oh -- Ohhhh!
Lion!
Oh -- Oh -- Oh!
You ought to be ashamed of yourself--
frightening him like that, when he came
to you for help!
You ought to be ashamed of yourself --
Silence!....
Whippersnapper!
The beneficent Oz has every intention of granting....
What's that? What'd he say?
But first, you must prove yourselves worthy by performing a very small task.
B-B-B-B-B-But if we do that, we'll have to kill her to get it!
B-B-B-B-B-But if we do that, we'll have
to kill her to get it!
But -- but what if she kills us first?
Now, go!
I ....
said, -Go!
The Four -- the Lion jumps with fright --
The Four standing in front of the throne in b.g.
The Lion comes running forward toward camera --
The Lion dives through window to exit -
ELS -- shooting down the length of the corridor
the Lion comes running forward toward camera
CAMERA PANS left with him as he dives through window to exit
I'D TURN BACK IF I WERE YOU!
Dorothy -- Scarecrow -- Lion and Tin Man walking thru forest -- they walk forward -- CAMERA TRUCKS ahead of them -- they stop -- look at the sign post -- Dorothy -- Scarecrow -- Lion and Tin Man looking at sign -- Lion reads -- nods -- turns to b.g.
Tin Man and Scarecrow stop him -- the others shake their head -- CAMERA TRUCKS back as they walk forward again -- Lion
I'd turn back if I were you.
(growls)
Lion runs to b.g.
Scarecrow and Tin Man catch him
carry him forward
he cries
Lion hands spray to Dorothy
Scarecrow takes the spray
throws it o.s. right
From now on, we're on enemy ground. You should have something to protect yourself with.
She - she can have my Witch Remover.
Does it work?
No, but it's wonderful for threatening
she can have my Witch Remover.
with.
Oh --
Oh, here - give me that thing!
Spray hits the ground - then vanishes -
Oh, did - did you see that?
Oh - look out.
I believe they're spooks around here.
You know something?
That's ridiculous! Spooks -- that's.... silly.
Don't you believe in spooks?
No.   Why only -- Oh --
Oh!   Oh, Tin Man!   Oh!
Oh -- Oh --
Oh -- are you -- are you all right?
are you -- are you all right?
I do believe in spooks, I do believe in
spooks. I do -- I do -- I do -- I do -- I...
do believe in spooks. I do believe in
spooks! I do — I do — I do — I do —
I do — I do!
(laughs)
You'll believe in more than that before
I've finished with you. Take your army
to the Haunted Forest, and bring me that
girl and her dog! Do what you like with
You'll believe in more than that before I've finished with you.
Take your army to the Haunted Forest, and bring me that girl and her dog! Do what you like with the others, but I want her alive and unharmed!
They'll give you no trouble, I promise you that. I've sent a little insect on ahead to take the fight out of them.
They'll give you no trouble, I promise you that. I've sent a little insect on ahead to take the fight out of them. Take special care of those ruby slippers. I want those most of all. Now, fly! Fly! Bring me that girl and her slippers! Fly! Fly! Fly!
What's that? What's that? Take it away – take it away – Take it away!
(cries)
Hold still – hold still --
Dorothy jumps as Jitterbug bites her leg
Bug bites Scarecrow – he jumps in the air – falls to ground – jumps up again
Oh! Something bit me, too!
Now come on - you're acting silly --
Oh, come on now - everybody --
Did you just hear what I just heard?
That noise don't come from no ordinary bird.
It may be just a cricket Or a critter in the trees.
It's giving me the jitters In the joints around my knees.
Oh, I think I see a jijik And he's fuzzy
Oh, I think I see a jijik
And he's fuzzy
and he's furry
I haven't got a brain
But
I think I ought to worry!
I haven't got a heart
But I got a
palpitation.
As Monarch of the Forest I don't like the situation.
Are you gonna stand around
And let 'em
Are you gonna stand around And let 'em fill us full of horror?
I'd like to roar 'em down -- But I think I lost my roarer.
It's a whozis.
It's a whozis?
It's a whatzis.
It's a whatzis?
Whozat?
Who's that hiding In the tree top? It's that rascal The
It's that rascal The Jitter Bug.
Should you catch him Buzzin' round you Keep away
from The Jitter Bug!
Oh, the bats....
And the bees
And the breeze in the trees Have a terrible, horrible buzz.
But the bats and the bees
And the breeze in the trees
Couldn't do what the Jitter Bug does.
So be careful
Of that rascal
Keep away from --
And the bees
And the breeze in the trees
Have a terrible, horrible buzz.
But the bats and the bees
Couldn't do what the Jitter Bug does.
So be careful
Of that rascal
Keep away from --
Oh, The Jitter -- Oh, the Bug
Oh, the Jitter --
Bug-bug-a-bug-bug-bug-bug-bug-a-boo!
In a twitter
In the throes
Oh, the critter's
Got me dancin' on a thousand toes.
Thar she blows!
look up o.s. - react
run to b.g.
react - run to b.g.
run out at right
run forward
two Winged Monkeys after her
Tin Man swinging axe at the Winged monkeys
Go away now!
Help!   Help!
Why, I'll -- Foul! Foul!
Lion and Tin Man enter
Camera trucks forward on them as Lion and Tin Man
Help! Help! Help! Help! Help!
Oh! Well, what happened to you?
They tore my legs off, and they threw
They tore my legs off, and they threw them over there! Then they took my chest out, and they threw it over there!
Well, that's you all over.
They sure knocked the stuffings out of you, didn't they?
Don't stand there talking! Put me together! We've got to find Dorothy!
Now, let's see -- this goes -- Oh, I wish I were better at puzzles.
Wait a minute. This is the left one. He walks bad enough already.
Oh, poor Dorothy. We may never see her again.
walks bad enough already.
Who do you suppose they were? And where did they take her? A fine thing - to go to pieces at a time like this!
Now, now, don't fret.
Oh, dear, dear.
We'll get you together!
What a nice little dog! And you, my dear. What an unexpected pleasure!
What a nice little dog!
What an unexpected pleasure!
It's so kind of you to visit me in my loneliness.
What are you going to do with my dog?
Give him back to me!
All in good time, my little pretty -- all in good time.
Oh, please give me back my dog!
Certainly -- certainly -- when you give me those slippers.
Certainly -- certainly -- when you give
me those slippers.
But the Good Witch of the North told me
not to.
Throw that basket in the river
and drown him!
No! No -- no! Here -- you can have your
old slippers -- but give me back Toto.
No! No! here -- you can have your old slippers -- but give me back Toto.
Ahh! Ah!
I'm sorry. I didn't do it!    Can I still
Ahh!
Ah!
I'm sorry. I didn't do it!
Can I still have my dog?
No! Fool, that I am! I should have remembered -- those slippers will never come off, as long as...
you're alive.
What are you gonna do?
What do you think I'm going to do? But that's not what's worrying me -- it's how to do it. These things must be done delicately....
Run, Toto, run!
Catch him, you fool!
He got away! He got away!
Ohhh! Which is more than you will!
Drat you and your dog!
Ohhh!
Drat
you and your dog!
Do you see that? That's how much longer
you've got to be alive! And it isn't....
Do you see that? That's how much longer you've got to be alive! And it isn't...
...long, my pretty! It isn't long!
I can't wait forever to get those shoes!
There. Now, that's the best we can do without any pins.
There.
Yeah --
Oh, don't worry about me. I'm all right.
We must worry about Dorothy.
But how can we find her? We don't even know where she is. Look! There's....
...Toto! Where's he come from?
Toto!
Toto! Where's he come from?
Why, don't you see? He's come to take us....
Oh --
Come on, fellows!
she looks about desperately --
barks --
exits out to right –
barks –
The Lion, Tin Man and Scarecrow struggling up the rocks –
the Tin Man slips –
The Tin Man slips off the side of the rocks – hangs to
Oh -- Oh -- Oh -- I....
I -- I -- I hope my strength holds out.
I hope your tail holds out. Oh --
Someday, I'll wake and rub my eyes
And in that land beyond the skies
You'll find me
What's that? What's that?
That's the castle of the Wicked Witch!
Dorothy's in that awful place!
Oh, I hate to think of her in there.
We've got to get her out.
(cries)
Don't cry now. We haven't got the oil-can with us and you've been squeaking enough as it is.
Who's them? Who's them?
The Witch's Winkies marching about in the Castle Courtyard –
enough as it is.
I've got a plan how to get in there.
Fine. He's got a plan
Fine.
He's got a plan
And you're going to lead us.
Yeah. Me?
Yes, you.
I -- I -- I -- I -- gotta get her outta there?
I -- I -- I -- I -- gotta get her outta
there?
That's right.
All right, I'll go in there for Dorothy --
Wicked Witch or no Wicked Witch -- guards
or no guards -- I'll tear 'em apart.
(growls)
I may not come out alive, but I'm going
in there.
There's only one thing I want you fellows
to do.
What's that?
I may not come out alive, but I'm going in there.
There's only one thing I want you fellows to do.
Talk me out of it.
No, you don't.
Oh, no!
No? Now, wait a minute.
You don't neither --
No?
Now, wait a minute.
Up!
Now...
Dorothy sobbing against the Witch's throne -- she cries out
I'm frightened, I'm frightened, Auntie Em
I'm frightened!
Where are you?
It's me -- it's Auntie Em. We're trying
to find you. Where are you?
I -- I'm here in Oz, Auntie Em. I'm
locked up in the Witch's castle....and
I'm trying to get home to you, Auntie Em!
Oh, Auntie Em, don't go away! I'm
frightened! Come back! Come back!
Oh, Auntie Em, don't go away! I'm frightened! Come back! Come back!
Auntie Em -- Auntie Em -- come back!
I'll give you Auntie Em, my pretty!
(laughs)
Sssh — Toto — be quiet —
The Lion looks around, sees the Winkies in back of them —
The Lion tries to speak — but is speechless with fright —
The Guards jump forward, seize the three and they disappear behind the rocks —
legs and arms seen as they fight —
Hour Glass
Whew! That wasn't my plan - but something happened, didn't it?
You put up a great fight, Lion.
That wasn't my plan - but something happened, didn't it?
Yeah --
I don't know what we'd have done without you.
Hah. I - I must have bitten you a couple of times.
Come on -- I've got another idea.
Do -- do you think it'll be polite --
dropping in like this?
Come on -- come on.
Where do we go now?
Yeah.
There!
Wait! We'd better make sure.
Dorothy, are you in there?
It's us!
Yes, it's me! She's locked me in!
Oh, I knew you'd get here in time!
Listen, fellows. It's her. We gotta get her out! Open this door!
Open the door! Open....
Open this door!
Don't push!
Stop pushing!
Open the door! Open the door! Open the door! Open the door!
Oh - I was only trying to help. Ohhh!
Oh, hurry -- please hurry!
The hour glass is almost emp-.
The hour glass is almost empty!
Stand back!
...ty!
Not much sand remaining!
Oh -- Oh -- Oh! Toto -- Toto!
Did they hurtcha?
Lion, darling -- I knew you'd come!
I knew you would!
Hurry -- we've got no time to lose!
Oh!
Going so soon? I wouldn't.... hear of it. Why, my little par-....
...ty's just beginning!
Trapped! Trapped like mice -- er -- rats!
Go ahead - do something! Roar! Roar!
Trapped like mice -- er -- rats!
What good'll it do us?
That's right. Don't hurt them right away.
We'll let.... them think about it a little, first!
How does it feel....
my little visitor?
Can you imagine what I'm going to do to you?
Here we go, boys!
The Scarecrow seizes the Tin Man's axe and chops the candelabra rope with it.
Oh!
Seize....
them! Stop them, you fools!
They've gotten away! Stop them! Stop them!
It's no use trying the doors again! Which room is it?
Which room is it?
They're coming back!
Ohhh!
Upstairs, quickly!
Oh - upstairs, quickly!
Go on!
There they go! Ah -- now we've got them!
There you go that way -- half you go that way!
Hurry!
Go!
Where -- where do we go now?
This way! Come on!
Where do we go now?
roar menacingly
mumble
Dorothy screams
scream
They react as they look o.s. to f.g.
They turn, run back
Dorothy screams
Well -- ring around the rosy -- a pocket full of spears! Thought you'd be pretty foxy, didn't you? Well, I'm going to start in on you right here - one after the other!
And the last to go will see the first three go before her! And your mangy little dog, too!
Witch smiles as she looks up
--
How about a little fire, Scarecrow?
Scarecrow's arm on fire – he shouts
Dorothy screams
Dorothy picks up a bucket, throws the water on Scarecrow
No -- No -- No -- No!
Ohh!   OHH!     OHH!
Help! I'm burning! I'm burning!        I'm
burning! Help! Help! Help!
Help! I'm burning! I'm burning!
Help! Help! Help!
Help!
The water hits the Witch in the face --
The Witch screams as the water hits her --
Lion, Tin Man, Dorothy and Scarecrow look at her --
The Lion, Tin Man, Dorothy and Scarecrow watch the Witch as she screams and melts away
Ohhh -- you cursed brat! Look what you've done! I'm melting! Melting! Oh - what a world -- what a world! Who would have thought a good little girl like you could destroy my beautiful wickedness?!
Look out! Look out! I'm going.
Ohhh!
Ohhhhhh....
what a world -- what a world! Who would
have thought a good little girl like you
could destroy my beautiful wickedness!?
OHHH! LOOK OUT! LOOK OUT! I'M GOING.
OHHHH! OHHHHHH...
She's....she's....dead! You've killed her!
She's....she's....dead!
I -- I didn't mean to kill her....really I didn't! It's...it's just that he was on fire!
Hail to Dorothy! The Wicked Witch is
Hail to Dorothy! The Wicked Witch is dead!
Hail! Hail to Dorothy – The Wicked Witch is dead!
Dorothy
The Wicked Witch is dead!
You mean, you're...you're all happy about it?
Very happy - now she won't be able to hit us with a broom....
anymore!
The broom!
May we have it?
Please!
And take it with you!
Please!   And take it with you!
Oh -- thank you so much! Now we can go back to the Wizard and tell him the Wicked Witch is dead!
The Wicked Witch is dead!
The Wicked Witch is dead! The Wicked Witch is dead!
Hail - Hail - the Witch is dead. Which old Witch? - the
Hail - Hail - the Witch is dead. Which old Witch? - the Wicked Witch. Hail - Hail - the Wicked Witch is dead.
Hail - Hail - the Witch is dead Which old Witch? - the Wicked Witch....
Hail - hail - the Wicked Witch is dead!
Ding Dong! The Witch is dead. Which old Witch?
The Wicked Witch! Ding Dong! The Wicked Witch is dead!
Ding Dong! The Witch is dead.
Which old Witch?
Wake up, you sleepy head
Rub your eyes
Get out of bed
Wake up, the Wicked Witch is dead!
She's gone where the Goblins go Below -- below -- below! Yo ho, let's open....
And ring the bells out. Ding Dong! The merry-oh Sing it high
up and sing
...low.
Let them know The Wicked Witch is dead! Ding Dong! The Witch
is dead.
Let them know The Wicked Witch is dead! Ding Dong! The Witch is dead.
Which old... witch?
The Wicked Witch Ding Dong! The Wicked Witch is dead!
Wake up, you sleepy head. Rub your eyes –
Get out of bed.
Wake up, the Wicked Witch is dead. She's gone where the Goblins go – Below – below – below.
No ho, let's open up and sing And ring the bells out. Ding Dong! The merry-oh
Sing it high --
Can I believe my eyes? Why...
have you come back?
Please, sir. We've done what you told us. We've brought you the broomstick of
Please, sir. We've done what you told us. We've brought you the broomstick of the Wicked Witch of the West. We melted her.
Oh ....
you liquidated her, eh?   Very....
you liquidated her, eh?
Very....
resourceful!
Yes, sir. So we'd like you to keep your
promise to us, if you please, sir.
Not so fast! Not....
Not so fast!
I'll have to give the matter a little thought. Go away and come back tomorrow!
Tomorrow?
Oh, but I want to go home now.
You've had plenty of time already!
Yeah!
Do not arouse the wrath....
of the Great and Powerful Oz!
I said -
...of the Great and Powerful Oz! I said - come back tomorrow!
If you were really great and powerful,
you'd keep your promises!
Do you presume to criticize the...Great Oz? You ungrateful creatures!
Great Oz? You ungrateful creatures!
Think yourselves lucky that I'm... giving you audience tomorrow, instead of...
giving you audience tomorrow, instead
of...
Oh -- oh oh!
The Great Oz has spoken! Oh -- Oh --
Oh .... Oh ....
Oh ....
Oh - I - Pay no....
Who are you?
Oh - I - Pay no attention to that man behind the curtain.
Go - before I lose my temper!
The Great and Powerful ---....
Who are you?
Oz's Voice
...— has spoken!
Dorothy
Who are you?
Oz's Voice
Well, I—I—I am the Great and
Well, I -- I -- I am the Great and Powerful -- Wizard of Oz.
You are?
Uhhhh -- yes...
I don't believe you!
No, I'm afraid it's true. There's no other Wizard except me.
You humbug!
Yeah!
Yes-s-s -- that...that's exactly so. I'm a humbug!
Oh ....
you're a very bad man!
Oh, no, my dear -- I'm -- I'm a very good man. I'm just a very bad Wizard.
You'd better be good enough to send Dorothy back to Kansas!
It makes me nervous!
It makes you nervous?
Yes.
What about us?
Well, I --
What about the heart that you promised
And the courage that you promised
And Scarecrow's brain?
Well, I-- but you've got them. You've had them all the...
Well, I--
time!
Oh, no we haven't!
You don't get around us that easy!
Not nohow!
Well --
You promised us real things -- a real...
...brain!
A real heart!
Real courage.
Real courage. That's what we want.
You do? boys, you're aiming low. You not only surprise, but you grieve me.
Why, anybody can have a brain. That's a very mediocre commodity. Every pusillanimous creature that crawls on the
Why, anybody can have a brain. That's a very mediocre commodity. Every pusillanimous creature that crawls on the earth — or slinks through slimy seas has a brain!
oh - oh, no -- -- ah - Well, be that as it may. Back where I come from we have universities, seats of great learning — where men go to become great thinkers. And when they come out, they
oh - oh, no -- -- ah -
Well, be that as it may.
They have one thing you haven't got! A diploma!
MS -- The Wizard reaches back and obtains several diplomas -- selecting one and presents it to the Scarecrow as Dorothy, Tin Man and the Lion look on --
Therefore, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Universitatus Committeeatum e plurbis unum, I hereby
Therefore, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Universitatus Committeeatum e plurbis unum, I hereby confer upon you the honorary degree of Th.D.
Th.D.?
Yeah -- that...that's Dr. of Thinkology!
CU -- The Scarecrow recites the Pythagoras Theorem -- reacts with joy --
The sum of the square roots of any two sides of an isosceles triangle is equal to the square root of the remaining side.
Oh joy, rapture! I've got a brain!
How can I ever thank you enough?
Well, you can't. As for you, my fine friend -- you're a victim of disorganized thinking. You are under the unfortunate delusion that simply because you run away
Well, you can't.
As for you, my fine friend -- you're a victim of disorganized thinking. You are under the unfortunate delusion that simply because you run away from danger, you have no courage. You're confusing courage with wisdom.
Back where I come from, we have men who are called heroes. Once a year, they take their fortitude out of mothballs and parade it down the main street of the city. And they have no more courage than you have. But! They have one thing that you haven't got! A medal!
Therefore -- for meritorious....
And they have no more courage than you have. But! They have one thing that you haven't got! A medal! Therefore — for meritorious....
...conduct, extraordinary valor, conspicuous bravery against wicked witches, I award you the Triple Cross.
You are now a member of the Legion of
Oh -- Oh -- shucks, folks, I'm speechless!
speechless!
As for you, my galvanized friend, you want a heart! You don't know how lucky you are not to have one. Hearts will never be practical until they can be made unbreakable. I could have been a world figure, a power among men, a - a successful wizard, had I not been
Hearts will never be practical until they can be made unbreakable.
I could have been a world figure, a power among men, a - a successful wizard, had I not been obstructed by a heart.
But I still want one.
Yes -- ....
back where I come from there are men who do nothing all day but good deeds. They are called phil...er -- er -- phil --
...men who do nothing all day but good deeds.
They are called phil...er -- er -- phil --
er, yes...good-deed-doers. And their
hearts are no bigger than yours. But!
They have one thing you haven't got! A
testimonial!
Therefore, in consideration of your
Therefore, in consideration of your kindness, I take pleasure at this time in presenting you with a small token of our esteem and affection. And remember, my sentimental friend...
...that a heart is not judged by how much you love, but by how much you are loved by others.
Ahh --- Oh, it ticks! Listen!
Yes...!
Ahh --- Oh, it ticks!
Listen!
Look -- it ticks!
Read...read what my medal says.
COURAGE
it ticks!
COURAGE --
Courage!...
Ain't it the truth!
Oh -- oh -- they're all wonderful.
Hey -- what about Dorothy?
Yes -- how about Dorothy?
Yeah.
Dorothy next!
Ah --
Yes. Dorothy -- ah -- Dor -- CU --
Dorothy --
Oh, I don't think there's anything in that black bag for me.
Oh, I don't think there's anything in
that black bag for me.
Well, no -- no -- on the contrary, on the -- --
I -- ah -- on the contr -- -- Here --
Well, you force me into a cataclysmic
decision. The only way to get Dorothy
back to Kansas is for me to take her
there myself!
Oh, will you? Could you? Oh -- but are
you a clever enough Wizard....
to manage it?
Oh, will you? Could you? Oh -- but are you a clever enough Wizard...to manage it?
Child -- you cut me to the quick! I'm an old Kansas man myself...born and....
...bred in the western wilderness --
...excellence to the Miracle Wonderland Carnival Company -- until one day, while
excellence to the Miracle Wonderland Carnival Company -- until one day, while performing spectacular feats of stratospheric skill never before attempted by civilized man, an unfortunate phenomena occurred. The balloon failed to return to the fair.
It did?
Yes. There was I, floating through space - a man without a continent!
Weren't you frightened?
Frightened? You are talking to a man who
has laughed in the face of death --
sneered at doom and chuckled at
catastrophe. I was petrified. Then
suddenly the wind changed, and the
balloon floated down into the heart of
this noble city, where I was instantly
Ohhh!
And in that balloon, my dear Dorothy, you
and I will return to the land of E
retaining my balloon against
the advent of a quick get-away.
And in that balloon, my dear Dorothy, you
and I will return to the land of E Pluribus Unum!
Good people of Oz, this is positively the
finest exhibition ever to be shown --
this is positively the finest exhibition ever to be shown
be that as it may -- I, your Wizard par ardua ad alta, am about
to embark upon a hazardous and technically unexplainable journey into
yes
well
be that as it may
To confer, converse, and otherwise hob-nob with my brother wizards. And I hereby decree that until what time—if any—that I return, the Scarecrow,
To confer, converse, and otherwise hob-nob with my brother wizards. And I hereby decree that until what time -- if any -- that I return, the Scarecrow, by virtue of his highly superior brains, shall rule in my stead... assisted by the Tin Man, by virtue of his magnificent heart... and the Lion -- by virtue of his courage! Obey them as you would me! And – ah – well, that’s all.
Toto in Dorothy's arms -- he barks at something o.s.
People cheer o.s.
WIZARD o.s. Thank you.
Toto barking in Dorothy's arms –
Dorothy in basket of balloon – Toto jumps from her
Oh, come back here! Toto!
Come back! Oh, don't go without me! I'll
Come back! Oh, don't go without me! I'll be right back! Toto!
Stop that dog!
This is a highly irregular procedure!
This is absolutely unprecedented!
Oh! Help me! The balloon's going up!
The Wizard rises slowly in the basket of balloon as the Oz people watch -- Scarecrow and Tin Man try to hold the balloon down -- Dorothy runs up on the platform, the Lion following -- she yells to the Wizard -- he shouts back -- the Oz people wave goodbye -- the balloon exits to left f.g.
Ruined my exit!
Help!
Oh! Come back! Don't go without me!
Please come back!
I can't come back!
I don't know how it works!
I can't come back! I don't know how it works!
Oh --
Goodbye, folks!
Goodbye!
Oh, now I'll never get home!
Stay with us, then, Dorothy. We all love
you. We don't want you to go.
Oh, that's very kind of you -- but this
could never be like Kansas. Auntie Em
must have stopped wondering what happened
to me by now. Oh, Scarecrow, what am I
going to do?
could never be like Kansas. Auntie Em
must have stopped wondering what happened
to me by now. Oh, Scarecrow, what am I
going to do?
Look -- here's someone who can help you!
Oh, Scarecrow, what am I going to do?
Oh, will you help me? Can you help me?
You don't need to be helped any longer.
You've always had the power to go back to Kansas.
I have?
Then why didn't you tell her before?
Because she wouldn't have believed me.
She had to learn it for herself.
What have you learned, Dorothy?
Well, I -- I think that it -- that it
Well, I -- I think that it -- that it wasn't enough just to want to see Uncle Henry and Auntie Em -- and it's that -- if I ever go looking for my heart's desire again, I won't look any further than my own backyard. Because if it isn't there, I never really lost it to begin with!
isn't there, I never really lost it to begin with! Is that right?
That's all it is!
But that's so easy! I should have thought of it for you.
I should have felt it in my heart.
No. She had to find it out for herself.
Now, those magic slippers will take you home in two seconds!
Oh....
she will lose her three friends –
Camera pans her left to Tin Man – she wipes his tears away – gives him
Toto, too?
Oh, now?
Toto, too.
Whenever you wish.
Oh, dear -- that's too wonderful to be true! Oh, it's -- it's going to be so hard to say goodbye. I love you all, too. Goodbye, Tin Man. Oh, don't cry. You'll rust so dreadfully. Here -- here's your oil-can. Goodbye.
hard to say goodbye. I love you all, too.
Oh, don't cry. You'll rust so dreadfully. Here -- here's your oil-can. Goodbye.
Now I know I've got a heart -- 'cause it's breaking.
I know it isn't right, but I'm going to miss the way you used to holler for help before you found your courage.
Well -- I would never've found it if it hadn't been for you.
way you used to holler for help before
you found your courage.
Well -- I would never've found it if it
hadn't been for you.
I think I'll miss you most of all.
Say goodbye, Toto.
Are you ready now?
Yes.
Yes, I'm ready now.
Then close your eyes, and tap your heels together three times.
MCU -- Dorothy's heels as she clicks them together three times -- MCU -- Dorothy and Glinda -- Glinda instructs her -- waves her wand -- Dorothy closes her eyes -- CAMERA TRUCKS in to a big CU of Dorothy -- she speaks -- the scene darkens
And think to yourself -- "There's no place like home; there's no place like home; there's no place like home."
There's no place like home. There's no place like home. There's no place like home. There's no place like home.
There's no place like home.
There's no place like...
...home. There's no
place....
There's no place like home.
there's no place like home
Dorothy! It's me – Aunt Em.
Dorothy!
no place like home
there's no place like home
Dorothy, dear. It's Aunt Em, darling.
Oh, Auntie Em -- it's you!
Yes, darling.
...she seems all right now.
Yeah.
she seems all right now.
Dorothy raises up on her elbow – speaks.
Aunt Em puts her back on pillow – then rises and exits.
Hunk – Hickory and Zeke enter – kneel beside bed.
Camera trucks forward – they speak to Dorothy.
Camera pulls back as Zeke and others exit right.
Aunt Em re-enters – sits by Dorothy – holds her head (hand).
Camera trucks back.
Zeke and others standing at right.
She got quite a bump on the head -- we kinda thought there for a minute she was going to leave us.
Oh --
But I did leave you, Uncle Henry -- that's just the trouble. And I tried to get back for days and days.
But I did leave you, Uncle Henry --
that's just the trouble. And I tried to
get back for days and days.
There, there, lie quiet now.   You just
had a bad dream.
No --
Sure -- remember me -- your old pal,
Hunk?
And me -- Hickory?
You couldn't forget my face, could you?
No. But it wasn't a dream -- it was a place. And you -- and you -- and you -- and you were there.
Oh --
(others laugh)
But you couldn't have been, could you?
Oh, we dream lots of silly things when we
No, Aunt Em -- this was a real, truly
And I remember that some of
wasn't very nice....
but most of it was beautiful. But
just the same, all I kept saying to
everybody was, I want to go home. And
they sent me home.
Doesn't anybody believe me?
Of course we believe you, Dorothy.
Oh, but anyway, Toto, we're home!
Home! And this is my room -- and you're
all here! And I'm not going to leave
here ever, ever again, because I love you
all! And -- Oh, Auntie Em -- there's no
place like home!